on this week's reader feedback we have a
video submitted by Seth the junior
player from Hawaii he asks us how can I
get more power and consistency on my
serve so let's review the video of his
serve and see what we can do to help him
so I'm looking at Seth's video of his
serve and his question asking how I get
more power and consistency Seth I think
it's a pretty good looking motion you do
some things I think very well most
importantly I think you're tossing
action is very good you really keep your
right hand being a lefty up there very
well but where I see you can make
improvements is your racket position
right in the middle of your swing your
leg position a little bit as you start
your load and then you're unloading up
into the ball and the last thing is in
slow motion you can really see that your
head drops a little bit early so those
are the four little areas I think that
you can tweak and you will really get a
lot more power especially coming from
the legs and you will get a little bit
more consistency because I think by
keeping your head up and by getting the
rack in a little better position it will
give you a more consistent contact point
so let's break it down starting with the
the racket work and if you'll notice in
the slow motion again you start down
here and once you get to about in this
position you sort of break the racket
the swing into that abbreviated motion
which is fine but your face starts to
open and as soon as the racket face
opens you could see the elbow starts to
come in a little bit and so I'd like to
see you experiment trying to keep your
palm down a little bit longer even if
it's abbreviated and one way to do that
is just practice starting with just in
this position here and practice starting
in this position to keep the elbow from
dropping in the face from opening so
that would be the first thing is hand
here so that the palm is down second leg
position if you'll notice now you're a
lefty so I'll show you lefty I'd like to
see your legs working together it looks
like when you get into your you're
coiling or your loading phase you almost
do a little bit of what they call dance
the plie where the legs are not working
this way your front leg is getting down
but the back leg is coming this way a
little bit so I don't think you're
working together here to get a good coil
being able to unload up into the court
because of that you'll notice that you
don't really get up too much and your
back leg is almost still on the ground
so this would be the third thing that
you could work on a little bit is when
you do get that leg position down that
you're able to explode up a little bit
more and I'd like to see you really get
this kick a little bit more as you come
in notice most of the good servers that
back leg really comes up yours barely
comes off the ground especially as you
are throwing the ball well into the
court good toss into the court you're
really exploding into the court but
you're not getting anything up and into
the court it's more this way then the
last thing is just trying to keep your
head up a little bit longer this is
typically one of the biggest problems
people I'm gonna serve but what you do
very well is you're great with your toss
and you're tossing arm so if you can
just remind yourself to try and keep
your chest up at that toss a little
longer so the head can be there I think
you are gonna not be dropping your head
quite as early and many times hitting
that ball into the net so in reviewing
our four points the first is don't open
the face try and keep the palm down
wrist very relaxed second is knees
working together rather than here
the third is once I do get in that good
position to explode up and really use
your legs to go up into the ball and
last try and keep your head up just a
little bit longer up until contact and I
think those things will really help your
serve